# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
The purpose of this project was to analyize Kickstarter data for our client, Louise. She is looking to fund her upcoming play "Fever" using Kickstarter to back her funding. Lousie has compiled Kickstarter data for us already in an Excel spread sheet that we will use to convey the infomation that Louise needs to make decisions on how she wants to set up her own Kickstarter. 
### Purpose
We wanted to see how other Kickstarter projects faired based on two criteria, launch date and funding goal. Additionally, we wanted to see how how specifically plays favored on Kickstarter based on the outcomes of their fundraising. Using this information we decided to generate tables and percentages to make the data more readable for Louise or anyone else trying to analyize the data for themselves.     
## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
To begin, very little information is given on canceled theater kickstarts. That being said, the data we do have shows a linear progression across all months, showing very little change for canceled Kickstarters based on month. Failed outcomes also showed very little change based on months, but there was a slight increase from April to August. The minimum value was in January of 33 failed Kickstarters and the maximum was in May with a value of 52. There were far more successful theater Kickstarters with May having the largest point at 111, which is an increase of 40 from the month prior. There is a steady decline after May but successful theater Kickstarters also outnumber the failed ones in every month. it is alos important to note that the failed and successful trend lines follow nearly the exact same trends. They rise and fall in the same months.
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
Simillarly to the Outcomes Based on Launch Dates, there is little to no information on canceled Kickstarters in the "plays" subcategory. We can see when looking at the line graph that the success and failed that the trends are mirrors of one another. As one line begin to trend negatively the other begins to trend positively. It is also clear to see that the most successful plays have a funding goal anywhere between less than $1000 and $14,999. Interestingly enough, the successful line trends positively again from "35000 to 39999" and "40000 to 44999", both these goals having a 66.6% success rate. The line trends negatively again after that goal.  
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
When beginning analysis on the worksheet the data I was outputting was not matching the data given in the module. This was a flaw of my own creation due to the fact that I still had filters on and was not using all of the data available. Additionally, When using the CountIfs formula for the Outcomes Based on Goals sheet I had referenced the wrong column on the original Kickstarter worksheet, causing all of my data to be incorrect. I had to go back and individually change each line of data to reference column F instead of column E. 
## Results
Based on the findings we can conlude that the highest chances of success for Louise to start her Kickstarter in the month of May and to set a goal below $15,000.  
- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
The first outcome to be made based on launch date is that theater based Kickstarters that began their funding in May had the highest success rate over any other time of the year. Additionally, the number of successful versus failed Kickstarters are about even (37 successful to 35 failed) in December. Secondly, roughly 61% of the Kickstarts for theater were successful sothe odds of launching a successful Kickstarter are more in favor of coming to fruition than not.   
- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
Based on the calculations of the Outcomes based on goals it can be concluded that Kickstarters with the lower goals (from between >$1000 and $15,000) had the highest rates of success. After $15,000 we begin to see a negative trend in the successful outcomes and a positive trend in the failed out. However, goals from between $35,000 and $45,000 had a higher success rate than failure rate. After this we see a drastic decline in success and the opposite affect on failure rates. 
- What are some limitations of this dataset?
One limitation of the datset is that there are no plays that had been canceled. While this could mean that Kickstarters for plays do not get canceled it is a more likely possibility that this dataset just did not include play Kickstarters that had been canceled. If we had data onn plays that had been canceled it would have affected the percentages of successful and failed outcomes. Another limitation is that we do not know what types of plays were the most successful. If we knew what genre of plays yeilded the best results we could give more accurate information to Louise on what the chances are that her play will be successful. The data on plays with goals larger than $20,000 is also limited, only having a total of 46 data points, while there were 985 data points on plays with goals less than $20,000.
- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
For Outcomes Based on Goals a  stacked bar graph could also be included to show the differences in each range. From a quick glance it would be easy to recognize how much more  or less successful each goal range based on the size of the bar alone. Theater Outcomes based on Launch Date could benefit from using a clustered bar graph. Each month would have it own section of bars that could be measured right next to each other to know how well each month favored. Moreover, you could look at the specific outcome bar for each month and analyze the difference between the two.   